The critical micelle concentration (CMC) of a surfactant defines the
concentration above which the surfactant monomers self-assemble in solution to
form micelles. The formation of micelles affects many interfacial phenomena
\cite{rosenSurfactantsInterfacialPhenomena2012}. However, predicting the CMC for
an arbitrary chemical structure remains challenging.

Perhaps the most well-established predictor for CMC, $X_{cmc}$, is the
Stauff-Klevens relationship, first published in
\citeyear{klevensStructureAggregationDilate1953}
\cite{klevensStructureAggregationDilate1953}. It formalised the observation that
CMC decreases exponentially with an increase in the number of carbons in the
hydrocarbon tail, $n_c$:

\begin{equation}
    \label{eq:klevens}
    \log X_{cmc} = A - Bn_c, \quad B > 0
\end{equation}

where $A$ and $B$ are empirical constants that depend on the temperature and the
homologous series, i.e. the headgroup. The model is simple and easily
interpretable: to reduce CMC, it is sufficient to extend the surfactant's
hydrocarbon tail thus defining an easy-to-apply qualitative heuristic. Its
drawback as a predictive model is its very limited applicability domain; each
set of parameters is only applicable to surfactants with a specific headgroup
and a linear carbon tail.

There have been a wealth of investigations into making more general models for
CMC prediction; here, a brief review of some diverse and promising approaches
for predicting CMCs of aqueous, single-surfactant systems will be given.

\input{sections/background.tex}

Here, we build upon this previously published GNN model
\cite{qinPredictingCriticalMicelle2021} in two ways: we apply a hyperparameter
search algorithm to further optimise the model's architecture and improve its
accuracy, and we implement an \emph{uncertainty quantification} technique that
yields confidence intervals alongside CMC predictions. This improved model is
compared against an adaptation of the group contribution approach that
determines the entire set of groups to consider using a feature selection
routine. In addition, a separate dataset is introduced so as to perform external
validation and to probe the limits of the models' applicability domain, as well
as to analyse the uncertainty quantification. Using the outcome of our
approaches, we interpret both models, and demonstrate a technique that allows
one to visualise chemical space through the `eyes' of the trained GNN. We show
that this technique facilitates a better understanding of the applicability
domain, which is essential to assess the accuracy of CMC predictions via neural
networks.